Presentation

My name is Víctor Ballester and I am currently enrolled in the M2 Applied and Theoretical Mathematics program at Paris-Dauphine University, following my graduation from Mathematics at the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB) last summer. For years I have been highly attracted to Mathematical Sciences, and more specifically in applied Mathematics and Physics. I consider myself a very determined as well as hard-working person. These qualities together with the friends relations that I have made during my last years have given me the power to become better in many aspects of my life, specially in Mathematics.

In high school I noticed that mathematics was the subject I was more confortable with, and that is why I decided to study Mathematics at UAB. During my early months in the university I realised that I have made the right choice and at the end of the year I ended up with an average mark of 8,81 (with two out of six honors).
I started my second year more encouraged and passionate and as the course progressed I realized that I was becoming better at Mathematics, with deeper critical thinking skills and an improved capacity in problem solving. I finished this year with an average mark of 9,30 (with six out of seven honors).
My third year was, in terms of marks, even better. I finished with average grade of 9,73 (with six out of eight honors). 
In my last year I had the opportunity to choose between a wide range of subjects, and I decided to take the ones that I was more interested in. I finished with an average mark of 9,87 (with full honors). In particular, I was awared with 10.0/10.0 in my final project, which was about the study of the dynamics of Earth-orbiting system and how stable their orbits are.
A few months after the end of my undergraduate studies I was awarded with the Extraordinary Award of the Faculty of Sciences of the UAB, which is given to the best student of each degree.

Along these four years what I enjoyed the most is the branch of Applied Mathematics, specially the Theory of Partial Differential Equations and the associated Numerical Analysis behind it. This together with my early interest in Motorsports and car racing led me to the decision of pursuing a PhD in Applied Mathematics in the field of computational fluid dynamics to subsequently work as a aerodynamicist in the Motorsports industry. 

My current options are the University of Manchester or Imperial College London in the UK or the institute of Science and Technology in Austria. 

A part from the curricular activities, I have also participated in a few Mathematics competitions having obtained notable results in some of them. The most recent one was the Simon Marais Mathematics Competitions in which I was the second best Spanish participant and topped the first quartile of the overall ranking. 
I also spent some years doing private classes to high school students. This activity helped me to acquire skills such as empathy, patience and explanatory capacity.


On balance, all of this academic background stands me in good stead to pursue higher studies abroad. And the granting of this fellowship would allow me to continue expanding my knowledge of Mathematics in a prestigious university.




My name is Víctor Ballester and I am currently enrolled in the M2 Applied and Theoretical Mathematics program at Paris-Dauphine University, following my graduation from Mathematics at the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB) last summer. For years I have been highly attracted to Mathematical Sciences, and more specifically in applied Mathematics and Physics. I consider myself a very determined as well as hard-working person. These qualities together with the friends relations that I have made during my last years have given me the power to become better in many aspects of my life, specially in Mathematics.

The subject that I enjoyed the most during the high school was definitely Mathematics. I was always very interested in the subject and I was always the first one to finish the exercises and exams. Therefore, my career choice was clear: I wanted to study Mathematics. During my first year at the university I realized that I had made the right choice. I was surrounded by people with the same interests as me and I was learning a lot of new things. As the years passed, I was becoming better and better at Mathematics, with deeper critical thinking skills and an improved capacity in problem solving. I finished my undergraduate studies with an average mark of 9.42, with 186 credits with honors out of 240. In particular, I was awared with 10.0/10.0 in my final bachelor project, which was about the study of the dynamics of Earth-orbiting system and how stable their orbits are. A few months after the end of my undergraduate studies I was awarded with the Extraordinary Award of the Faculty of Sciences of the UAB, which is given to the best student of each degree. 
Last september I started my new adventure in Paris. I was given a fellowship from the Paris Graduate School of Mathematical Sciences to study at Paris-Dauphine University and the overall experience until now has been astonishing. I am a very competitive person and I always try to be the best in everything I do, and the bright classmates that I have here are pushing me to become a better mathematician. At Paris-Dauphine I am specializing in computational fluid dynamics and I will be doing my master thesis in this field, specifically in the transition from 2D to 3D turbulence.

The next step in my career is to pursue a PhD in Applied Mathematics in the field of computational fluid dynamics to eventually work as a aerodynamicist in the Motorsports industry, which is my dream job. I am currently applying to several universities in Austria and the UK and I am confident that I will be accepted in one of them. The choice of these institutions is not arbitrary. The Institute of Science and Technology in Austria is one of the best research centers in Europe and their current research in fluid dynamics is worldwide renowed. The prospect of contributing to and learning from such a distinguished research center is truly inspiring and aligns seamlessly with my academic and career aspirations. On the other hand, I also applied to the University of Manchester and Imperial College London in the UK. The UK is top-ranked in the field of Motorsports and therefore it would be a great opportunity to study there. 
In essence, my decision to apply to institutions in both Austria and the UK reflects my desire to engage with cutting-edge research, collaborate with leading scholars, and immerse myself in vibrant academic communities that embody the spirit of innovation and excellence.

A part from the curricular activities, I have also participated in a few Mathematics competitions having obtained notable results in some of them. The most recent one was the Simon Marais Mathematics Competitions in which I finished the second best Spanish individual in the west division of the competition.
I also spent some years doing private classes to high school students. This activity helped me to acquire skills such as empathy, patience and explanatory capacity that are very useful for improving the team work and the communication skills.

On balance, all of this academic background stands me in good stead to pursue doctoral studies abroad. And the granting of this fellowship would allow me to continue expanding my knowledge of Mathematics and Physics in a prestigious university.